Our design intends to offer musicians of all skill levels a platform to automatically create the perfect band to fit their needs. We offer this service to musicians who want to enrich their own musical abilities in a group setting that fulfills their requirements for music type, location, band size, and hundreds of other factors that are beyond their ability of communicating properly. Essentially, our targets are people who want to form a band that not only fits their describable needs, but also has that certain “je ne sais quoi” that makes a group greater than the sum of its parts. Functionally, this group includes all musicians wanting to perform with others. Considering the lack of support for musical talents at Williams outside of established groups within the music department, there exists a body of musicians on campus who fall into our target ranges. Alternatively, we believe that conducting a partially retrospective contextual inquiry with members of well known bands within the Berkshires would be useful in gaining insight on the issue relevant to band formation. 

  Our first interview, which will take place the weekend of the 28th of September, will include a Williams student who is in the beginning stages of creating a band with a new group of people. When conducting our inquiry, we will focus on the steps the student is currently taking to find other musicians (this might be in the form of being with them while they email or speak to other prospective musicians) as well as asking about previous actions the interviewee has taken to further this goal. We want to ask questions that give us insight about how much the interviewee actually knows about what kind of qualities they want in bandmates. We also want to observe the types of things that are especially frustrating for the musician going through this process. We believe that an unstructured interview design will best fit our needs because of the largely retrospective and organic nature of band formation. The process is often largely done in very small portions and in organic settings, like a simple text at one point in time, or a quick chat with another potential bandmate on their way to class. Instead of sitting in on one of these very small tasks, we want to conduct an unstructured interview where we can ask about the topics above, but also ask interviewees to bring up multiple artifacts that represent these disjoint activities (such as emails, text messages, anecdotes of past activities/communications). While the design will largely be unstructured, we hope to conduct “mini” retrospective CIs for every artifact that comes up.

  For our second interview, we want to meet with either John Kelly or Andrew Kelly, Berkshire musicians who also teach a Winter Study course on “busking.” In their course, they facilitate the creation of bands who will eventually have to perform together at the end of the course. They are good examples of people we would consider experts on the topic. We imagine that they could take advantage of Harmonee to organize students in effective bands, so they don’t have to. We would like to focus on their process of organizing the class into groups in ways that make for quality performances year after year. We might focus on the planning they do prior to the course to make sure that students have the resources to effectively form cohesive bands. So far, we have contacted John and Andrew and are awaiting their response to our request for a meeting. We believe that an unstructured interview would be more effective for this interview because a contextual inquiry necessitates that we be with them as they are going through the process of forming bands among the students of the class, which is not currently possible to watch. We believe that we have a great opportunity to gain expert insight through interviewing them, which I believe may outweigh the benefits of conducting a true CI with less experienced individuals.

  Lastly, we want to conduct a contextual inquiry with at least one member of a band on campus looking for a new member to join their existing group. Here we want to focus on the steps they are taking to find someone (if we are extremely lucky, we might even be able to sit in a band try-out). We also want to focus on the group dynamics that already exist to gauge what kind of relationships work and do not work in these settings. This might be achieved through sitting in on a band practice session.











