## Our Subject  
  We interviewed Milly Sanders [pseudonym]. She is the front-woman of an up-and-coming band on campus. She is also currently in the process of building a new band to potentially perform in the area. We came across her by chance while walking through campus, as she was in the middle of practicing with her band ahead of an upcoming show. We decided to conduct our semi-structured interview/contextual inquiry in one of the unused common rooms in Greylock quad. Based on what we learned about the process in which Milly has formed bands, this environment is not unlike the ones she would normally be corresponding with potential bandmates or setting up practice/jam sessions.

## Interview Design
  Our design was a mixture of a semi-structured interview and contextual inquiry, as much of the band-formation process we would have liked to have observed could not easily be done or initiated artificially. The first section of the interview included general questions about band creating experiences on campus, followed by asking her to walk us through in as much detail as possible whenever she referenced a specific moment. It was often her first reaction to speak about the process in generalities with respect to these past events, however we were able to get deeper responses by asking a lot of “how” and “why” questions in regards to specific events. For example, when asked about her latest encounters with a potential bandmates, she naturally jumped from the instance in which they first met through a capella, to the instance of their first gig. Here, we tried to ask her about a lot of the minutiae of the in-between like “who initiated the practices?”, “who found out about the gig?,” and “who represented the group” to the organizers of the venue. This was especially true when we sensed that she was speaking about something that was particularly stressful or contentious. Lastly, we used a contextual inquiry structure to have Milly take us through what her next steps would be in starting a brand-new band that she was in the middle of creating. We started with her showing us the initial text messages she had sent out to potential band-mates, followed by her talking us through what her considerations might be going forward concerning things like the “sound” of the players, and how well she knows them already.	 

## Findings & Problems
  In the contextual inquiry we learned a great deal about how the process of band formation happens organically, and the problems that arise. Since Milly was integral in getting all of the members together, she felt as though she settled into her role as the sort of de facto band manager. During the course of her experience as band manager, Milly encountered numerous areas of interpersonal friction. For one, the initial step of delegating responsibilities in the group proved to be problematic. Despite claiming that she “was the worst instrumentalist,” she was the greatest source of songwriting; instead of bouncing ideas off one another, the other members of the band would go along with her ideas. This disconnect caused her to reflect on the process of developing a repertoire of songs to play: should you begin with covers of songs or a chord progression? If you decide to be a cover band to start, how do we make sure everyone enjoys the songs we play? Moving forward, how do we choose the inspirations that inform how we develop our own sound? 
  Another problem Milly encountered is that she didn’t set up regular meeting times for practicing and building up a workable setlist beforehand, instead opting for irregular rehearsals in the case that they had an upcoming gig. To Milly, this lack of preparation and regularity held the band back from realizing their potential: "If you’re not expected to perform right away, you can develop your set better.” Furthermore, because college students have little free time outside of their classes and extracurriculars/sports, rehearsals demand a certain level of productivity and efficiency. This leaves little room for creativity, Milly asserted, further stunting group growth and development.
  After hearing these complaints, we reflect on the ways that these areas of friction can be smoothed and lubricated by technology. We had some idea that we wanted to handle the logistical aspects of band formation, but the interview made us grapple with this goal in new ways: how do we handle song suggestions, delegating band roles, balancing productivity with creativity? These questions remain open, but could be an interesting avenue for exploration going forward in the next inquiries.

## Going Forward
