From a very young age, I was known as the artist of the family. You could always find me with a pencil in hand, drawing a cyberpunk skyscraper, a video game character, or a world map for my friend group’s make believe stories. While my skills have shifted from visual to aural art, I retained from this upbringing a fascination with the way that good design can pleasing to the eye… and bad design an eyesore. This rather shallow relationship with design has several implications, particularly regarding emotional impact: the way that advertisements can attract viewers, the way that interior design can make us feel a certain way (calm, anxious, or focused), or the way a certain sound effect can impart a feeling of satisfaction (keyboard lock screen clicks on iPhone).

This purely aesthetic approach to design is limited in many ways. This class has opened me up to a more functional approach, concerned with specific tasks that a design intends to accomplish. In this way, design is not an end in itself, but a way to make our desired functionality flourish. 

## 1. Having a focus of design as user-centric is a powerful general rule. 

When we consider different types of artwork in museums, we are often captivated by the style and form of the artist in question; we are focused on the works as works of great men and women. This conception of art does not work so well for design, where, at times, practicality must take precedence over style. For example, we may like it better for the composition of a room’s interior that a light switch be on the ceiling; however, if it is out of our reach, that we are missing the point entirely. The high-minded appreciation of the artist found in many circles of visual art culture falls flat when transferred over to the realm of design, since there is a level of user participation and engagement with creation that is absent in those media. Instead of obsessing with the perspectives of a given artist or creator, we should focus instead on the user/consumer. This is especially useful for design of computer interfaces, where user interaction comes to the forefront. The readings by Norman at the beginning of the year did a fantastic job of providing me with a vocabulary and a basis to build Edwin’s and my design for Harmonee, where we considered how our various designs can be more or less intuitive for users through the affordances, signifiers and constraints. An understanding of the basic metaphors and motifs that are commonly used gave us a tool set to craft our designs.  

## 2. Arriving at design is done primarily through participation, not introspection

When thinking about what makes for an effective design in this way, one might think that it requires significant time alone, coming up with an initial design via a single “eureka” moment. However, the process of design is to a large degree an interpersonal activity, involving conversations between multiple actors with different roles. While I knew this to some degree before this class, the degree to which design required interactions with others was something I did not foresee. Furthermore the type of activities we would be involved with were quite surprising. The initial fly-on-the-wall activity got us thinking about how people interact with their surroundings and with the products they use. More related to our project was the usage of contextual inquiry, where we sought to find the most pressing issues that musicians face in their daily life and experience, to hone our motivations into actionable content. 

This is not to say that one can design without taking time to think first. However, I found it much more useful in my experience to bounce ideas off of Edwin, and also listen to his ideas and relate to them. This proved to be much more fruitful of a process than attempting to do ideas by myself. This was further facilitated by the delegation of responsibilities between Edwin and me; for example, when tasked with drafting three potential designs, Edwin would design one, I would design one, and we would design the third one together. Because we were in a rather exceptional situation (two person group with a workload design for three) we were able to work in this manner, not a simple “divide and conquer” attitude towards getting things done.

## 3. Paper prototyping is a highly effective way to arrive at a digital mockup.

One such activity that Edwin and I collaborated on effectively was the process of paper prototyping. At the outset, the thought of having to develop a full model of our app on paper was confusing to me, as it seemed to me to be an exhausting activity. I had not been used to using so many of the hands-on arts and crafts tools in a class about computers. Beyond this, I felt that it was an unnecessary step to get to our digital mockup; why couldn’t we just cut to the chase?

As it turns out, I was wrong on all of these counts. Crafting a paper prototype was actually a lot of fun, and, in hindsight, took a lot less time than drafting our digital prototype. However, this doesn’t take into account the fact that our digital prototype significantly reduced the time to draft our digital mockup; if we didn’t have anything drawn out to guide us, we likely would be spinning our wheels in our head, wondering how to get our vision onto the screen. I found that paper still represents an extremely effective medium for concretizing my vision, in a way that a computer mouse cannot do as well. Most importantly, having a paper prototype made it easy to conduct our user experience research, expediting the process because of the low fidelity, but also the physical format was easy for users to interact with. Users were able to point out things they thought were good and difficult to interpret in the design, and the usage of post-it notes also simplified  things like drop-down menus.

## 4. Designs should accommodate all ability levels. 

Being able to see our designs come to life in the prototyping, mockup, and user experience research phases got us thinking about the way that other people will be using the app, people who come from all types of backgrounds and ability levels. While at a surface level I understood that this is an important idea that any designer should be committed to, I didn’t know exactly how to accommodate, say, for people with dyslexia or autism spectrum disorder. The principles set out by the Home Office Government in the UK were able to put these principles into perspective. For example, I didn’t know that having a clear, simple to use interface which provides appropriate feedback was useful for people using screen readers, those with autism, and people with anxiety. Ensuring that navigation elements, like a bottom bar and back buttons, demonstrates a commitment to this ease-of-use approach by Edwin and me.

## 5. User Data should be protected an extension of user rights, not abused and sold for personal gain.

While designs typically concern themselves with the superficial elements of an application, they cannot entirely be divorced with corresponding backend concerns. Given that Harmonee contains a significant amount of personal data, it is imperative that such data is protected, since its release would likely be identifying (location, picture, even instruments played). In this way, a code of ethics regarding data is crucial in order to maintain user trust, avoid scandal and, most importantly, to do the right thing. Based on the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative’s “The Signal Code,” there is a simple way to solve this: by treating data as you would any other private property. This means that data should not be sold without user knowledge, it should be stored securely, and if data is used unethically there should be recourse should their data rights be violated. Given the global nature of data, these rights should be international standards to which governments may choose to follow.

I learned a lot in this class about the way that design affects our daily lives in ways that go beyond the superficial. It can change the way that we interact with our environment and others. The way that interfaces are designed speaks volumes about the kind of people they choose to accommodate. Snapchats redesigns, which continually shift focus away from users and towards advertisers, resulted in a disaffected userbase and millions of uninstalls. We can only hope that the troubling trends of recent times (the spread of fake news, breaches of privacy, and ever-encroaching advertiser influence) can be combatted with ethical codes and inclusive design principles.
